-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about one more Kubernetes core concept named services.
And in services specifically
we are going to focus on NodePort service.
So why we are introducing this concept very early
during the pods demo itself.
The reason is, so we have deployed a pod until
and unless we test it and then access it
we really don't know what is happening, right?
So everything, if you test, then we know what is happening.
So in that line, so we are going to introduce this
which means like whatever the pod we are going to deploy
on the Kubernetes cluster, we are going to expose it
to the internet and then access it
and then ensure that my application is running.
So that gives you a good feel for us, right?
So let's do that now.
So we can expose an application running on a set
of ports in Kubernetes using different services available
in Kubernetes.
So those are ClusterIP, NodePort and LoadBalancer.
So ClusterIP is specific to a cluster
which means its boundary is only a cluster
and inside the Kubernetes cluster
you can access your ports with ClusterIP
if you have created a ClusterIP service for your port
and NodePort is nothing but using the nodes port
whatever it is exposed, using that port,
you will be able to access
your application externally via internet.
And another thing is LoadBalancer.
So this is specifically for our cloud providers like AWS
and then Google and then Azure.
So they LoadBalancer services integrated with Kubernetes
so that using LoadBalancer service,
you will be automatically able
to create a AWS elastic load balancer or Azure load balancer
or Google load balancer automatically.
Moving on with NodePort service,
so to access our application outside of Kubernetes cluster
we can use the NodePort service.
So it exposes the service on each worker nodes,
IP at a static port, nothing but the ClusterIP service
to which the NodePort service routes
is automatically created
whenever a NodePort service is created.
And the port range for our worker nodes is going
to be 30,000 to 32,767.
So now let's understand the entire flow
in a diagrammatical manner.
So you see, you have a Kubernetes cluster
with a worker node here.
So, and then you have deployed your port engine export
which is nothing but your
my first port, whatever it is we have seen earlier
we have deployed it here.
So now we have created a NodePort service.
So what happens, right in a NodePort service
you'll have something called every service will have
its own port.
So that is nothing but the ClusterIP service port.
So your port port is 80
and your ClusterIP service port is also 80.
So the next thing is target port.
So in the the service you'll have the definition called port
which is 80, which is nothing
but the service port and the target port.
And the target port is nothing but container port in a port.
So this is nothing but your respective ports' port.
So this is port port 80
and the next thing is worker NodePort.
So this is nothing but whatever it starts
from 30,000 to 32,767.
So whenever you are creating it using the imperative way
you don't have an option to declare it the specific port
but whenever you're doing it
in a declarative manner using YAML.
So you can define one specific port number
from this respective range.
So I can say 32 331 or something.
And then you can specifically declare your port
and then use it when you are using YAML.
But when you are doing with imperative way using kubectl
you really don't have,
and then automatically Kubernetes assigns one dynamic port
between this range.
So that's about the worker NodePort
and then ClusterIP service port,
and then container port in a port.
So now the next thing is whenever a user tries
to access using worker node IP and then NodePort
so the traffic comes via our worker nodes, respect to port
which is in between this range.
And then it will send
to that ClusterIP service under that on port 80.
And then from there it will send to the target port
which is nothing but the 80 port on our port
and then our application will be accessible.
So this is about the NodePort service on a very high level.
So in our next lecture we'll focus
on the entire demo for this one.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye, thank you.